Project Documentation: Contact Page Design
I. Project Overview:
This project aims to design and implement a modern, user-friendly contact page for a website. The contact page will include a form for users to send inquiries and will securely integrate with a Google Sheet for data collection.

II. Design Specifications:

A. Functionality:
Users can submit their name, email address (optional phone number), and message through a web form.
The form should implement real-time or on-submit validation for each field, providing clear error messages and visual cues (e.g., highlighted borders, icons) for invalid entries.
Upon successful submission, users should receive a confirmation message or be redirected to a "Thank you" page.

B. User Interface (UI):
Modern and clean design aesthetic.
Clear and easy-to-understand layout.
Responsive design that adapts optimally to various screen sizes and devices.
User-friendly form layout with clear labeling for each field.

C. Technical Implementation:
Choose  front-end framework ReactJS for building the contact form.
Utilize JavaScript libraries for form validation and user interaction (e.g., React Hook Form).
Employ CSS frameworks Bootstrap for styling and responsiveness.

III. Google Sheets Integration:
Utilize Google Sheets API to securely transmit form data to a designated Google Sheet.
Implement server-side functionality (e.g., Node.js) or consider third-party solutions like Formspree or JotForm for simplified integration (if security requirements allow).
Ensure secure communication protocols like HTTPS for data transmission.
Consider user data anonymization or encryption in the Google Sheet if sensitive information is collected (e.g., phone number).

IV. Deployment:
Deploy the project on a platform like Vercel for hosting the React application.
Configure Vercel to handle routing and server-side functionality (if applicable).
Provide the Vercel deployment link as part of the project submission.

V. Deliverables:
Functional contact page deployed on a platform Vercel.
Public GitHub repository containing the source code and documentation.
This project documentation serves as a guide for the development of the contact page. Specific details and design decisions can be further refined as the project progresses.

Setting Up Your Contact Page Project Locally
This guide outlines the steps to install dependencies and run your contact page project locally.

Prerequisites:

Node.js and npm (or yarn): Download and install Node.js from https://nodejs.org/en (includes npm). Alternatively, you can use a package manager like yarn (https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/).
Instructions:

Clone the project: Open your terminal and navigate to your desired directory using the cd command. Then, clone the project from your public GitHub repository using the following command, replacing <username> with your GitHub username and <repository-name> with the actual name of your repository:
Bash
git clone https://github.com/<username>/<repository-name>.git
Use code with caution.
Navigate to the project directory: Use the cd command to enter the project directory:
Bash
cd <repository-name>
Use code with caution.
Install dependencies: Run the following command in the terminal to install the project's required dependencies:
Bash
npm install
Use code with caution.
(Alternatively, if you use yarn, the command would be yarn install.)

Start the development server: Once the dependencies are installed, run the following command to start the development server:
Bash
npm start
Use code with caution.
(Again, use yarn start if you're using yarn.)

This will typically start the server on your local machine, often at http://localhost:3000 by default. You can access the contact page by opening this address in your web browser.

Google Sheets API Setup, Data Structure, and Security Considerations

I. Google Sheets API Setup:
Here's an overview of setting up the Google Sheets API for your contact page:

1. Enable the Google Sheets API:
Go to the Google Cloud Console (https://console.cloud.google.com/) and create a new project or select an existing one.
Enable the Google Sheets API for your project by searching for the API in the search bar and enabling it.

2. Create API credentials:
Under "APIs & Services" in the left menu, navigate to "Credentials."
Click "Create credentials" and choose "API key."
Copy the generated API key and store it securely (do not share it publicly).

3. Modify request permissions:
In the API Explorer page for the Google Sheets API (https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/guides/concepts), ensure you select the appropriate scopes for your needs. For basic data appending to a spreadsheet, the "Sheets API v4" scope might suffice. However, consult the documentation for specific permissions needed for your chosen approach.

II. Data Structure:
Plan your data structure in the Google Sheet to efficiently store and manage collected information. Here's a basic example:

Column A	Column B	Column C	Column D
Name	Email	Phone Number	Message

Data types: Consider setting appropriate data types for each column (e.g., text, email, date) for better organization and potential validation.

III. Security Considerations:
HTTPS communication: Ensure all communication between your application and the Google Sheets API utilizes HTTPS for secure data transmission.
API key security: Never share your API key publicly or embed it directly in your client-side code. Consider server-side implementation to protect the key.
Data validation: Implement server-side validation to prevent potential data manipulation or injection attacks before storing information in the Google Sheet.
Data anonymization/encryption (optional): If you collect sensitive information like phone numbers, consider anonymizing or encrypting it before storing it in the Google Sheet.
User privacy: Clearly communicate your data collection and usage practices in a privacy policy on your website.
